# Chapter Fiften Challenges

## 15.1

For this question, I assume that we are sticking with the typical arithmetic operator precedence probably all experienced programmers know well.

### Expression 1

1 * 2 + 3

⇒

(1 * 2) + 3

⇒

    CONST 1
    CONST 2
    MULTIPLY
    CONST 3
    ADD

### Expression 2

1 + 2 * 3

⇒

1 + (2 * 3)

⇒

    CONST 1
    CONST 2
    CONST 3
    MULTIPLY
    ADD

### Expression 3

3 - 2 - 1

⇒

(3 - 2) - 1 // Left-to-right ordering

⇒

    CONST 3
    CONST 2
    SUBTRACT
    CONST 1
    SUBTRACT

### Expression 4

1 + 2 * 3 - 4 / -5

⇒

(1 + (2 * 3)) - (4 / (-5)) // Negation has highest precedence, and addition and substraction equal precedence, so we resolve that by left-to-right ordering

⇒

    // Build up the minuend of the outer subtraction first
    CONST 1
    CONST 2
    CONST 3
    MULTIPLY
    ADD

    // Now build up the subtrahend
    CONST 4
    CONST 5
    NEGATE
    DIVIDE

    // Perform the final substraction
    SUBTRACT

### Description of Algorithm

I realised later that I could have avoided the mistakes I made at first with this exercise by following this simple recursive algorithm.  I'm just going to describe it textually, since I can't be bothered trying to mock up some sort of pseudocode representation.

Take your input expression, and break it out into separate pieces by precedence (essentially the same as the parenthesising step performed above).  Determine the outer-most/lowest-precedence operation, then recursively solve the sub-components.  If a sub-component is a constant, emit the appropriate CONST opcode.  If it is a unary operation, process the operand and then emit the unary operation's opcode.  If the sub-component is a binary operation, resolve the left-hand operand of the operator first, then the right-hand operand, and finally emit the operator's opcode.  Once this has all finished and moved back up to the top of the tree, you can lastly emit that outermost operator, and then you are done.  If you reach a point where you have an empty input to the recursive process, then the overall input expression was incorrect.  In a well-formed expression, you will always bottom out at the constants.  If there is an empty sub-expression after taking away one layer of operators, then the expression was in error all along.

## 15.2

### Sans OP_NEGATE

4 - 3 * -2

⇒

4 - (3 * (-2))

⇒

    CONST 4
    CONST 3

    // Generate -2
    CONST 0
    CONST 2
    SUBTRACT

    MULTIPLY
    SUBTRACT

### Sans OP_SUBTRACT

4 - 3 * -2

⇒

4 - (3 * (-2))

⇒

    CONST 4
    CONST 3
    CONST 2
    NEGATE
    MULTIPLY
    NEGATE
    ADD

### Reasoning

Precisely whether or not you should indeed include both the OP_NEGATE AND OP_SUBTRACT opcodes probably depends on a few things.  Principally, how many opcodes you have to play with.  If there's no shortage of them, then there's probably no great reason not to use them.  It *might* be the case that there is some notable performance issue arising from including the extra opcode.  I'm not too sure how (especially if the underlying processor can happily work with both), but if that is found to be a problem then there would be a good reason to eliminate one.  The biggest reason I can think of to keep both of them is to make it easier for any developers who need to read the output bytecode from the compiler.  While you certainly can get by with only one or the other, it'll probably make reading that bytecode *much* harder.  Come to think of it, there's plausibly a slight change that including both will actually be beneficial to performance, in that more opcodes can mean fewer individual bytecode instructions to process.  Overall, unless there's some **clear** drawback to keeping both, I would retain them.  Given that we're working with a bytecode interpreter instead of directly talking to a physical processor in its Assembly language, at worst, you could perhaps turn one into a pseudo-instruction that is transformed into uses of the other.

Off the top of my head, I can't think of any other instructions to include.  At least, not of the arithmetic operator type ones.  I mean, strictly speaking you can implement XOR using AND, OR and NOT (or, indeed, using purely NAND or NOR), but I'd still probably want to include an opcode for it for convenience's sake.  I presume that if there is some more-complex operation the programs written in the language will perform frequently, you might want to include a specialist opcode for that (especially if the operation normally balloons out to heaps of separate opcodes) to cut out some of the overhead of going through the interpretation loop.  That definitely strikes me as a case of only doing so once you have established that there is a problem.

## 15.3

I'm not clear if this challenge actually asks us to implement a process to grow the stack as needed (let alone shrink it), or if it just asks for a discussion.  I shall *attempt* to implement such a process first.

## 15.4
