# Chapter Two Challenges

## 2.1

I chose [F#](https://fsharp.org/), since it's my favourite language.  The Microsoft/.NET implementation (which, really, is the only one) code is stored on [GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/fsharp).  It is not entirely clear to me whether F# uses Lex & Yacc, or not.  I find references in comments to FsLex and FsYacc, but I could not find any files actually named that.  Moreover, there *appears* to be lexing and parsing written by hand under the [SyntaxTree](https://github.com/dotnet/fsharp/tree/main/src/Compiler/SyntaxTree) directory.  Shockingly enough, it appears to be much bigger and more complicated than Jlox ever gets, and I can't really make heads nor tails of it all, despite having taken a look at the [compiler guide](https://fsharp.github.io/fsharp-compiler-docs/).  You can see much  more about  the intended behaviour of the compiler at MS' [F# Language Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/fsharp/language-reference/).

## 2.2

I would guess that the main reason not to use JIT compilation would *probably* be complexity.  I suspect that there's a base level of complexity involved that one must overcome before a language of any sort can be run.  If someone just wants to have something simple and basic, and performance is not a concern, then it would probably be a large fixed cost to pay upfront to derive benefits that are largely unwanted.  There might also be something around the fact that a JIT inevitably requires a few moments (relatively speaking) to compile some things and start running the program.  Perhaps somebody wants execution of the program proper to kick off immediately, and not wait those extra few hundred milliseconds.  I'm struggling to think of any scenario where this is reasonable, though.  As a third thought, there might also  be something about how a JIT compiler perhaps doesn't play nice with the programmer altering the code during execution.  Maybe JIT compilation assumes that once the program starts running, the source code (or at least the AST) won't be directly modified by a programmer.
