# Chapter Three Challenges

## 3.1

To be completed.  I don't have any great ideas for Lox programs to write, to be honest 😖

## 3.2

I hate to admit it, but I'm not coming up wtih anything...  No doubt when I check Nystrom's suggested answers I'll be thinking "oh, of course, that's definitely an issue!".

## 3.3

The obvious one to me, off the top of my head, is pattern matching.  Being a big fan of the ML languages, pattern matching is something I tend to want to use a lot, so I think it would become fairly tedious for me not to have that available.

Taking a look at the [latest complete specification of F#](https://fsharp.org/specs/language-spec/4.1/FSharpSpec-4.1-latest.pdf) (which, to be honest, is actually pretty old, but there's no more up-to-date whole document available), I see these other things I might want:

- Integer number types, *mostly* because there are tricksy things you can do with their binary representations when you need performance.  If you start expanding the number of semi-related types, it'd be a good thing to look at casting, also.  You'd also need bitwise operators to do the binary manipulation 🤔
- Some form of exception system - especially since it's not clear to me how you could easily use `Result` types as a replacement.  This would inevitably involve the introduction of try/catch/finally (or equivalent) blocks.
- Some way to have composite data structures without defining a full class.  E.g. structs, POCOs/POJOs etc (I mean, you can do that with classes, but I suspect there's a lot of unnecessary overhead).  For that matter, I don't think interfaces or similar are a part of the language either.  They can be *extremely* useful, so I'd want them along with inheritance.
- I don't recall seeing anything about including comments.  Definitely strikes me as something to include.
- As remarked on by Nystrom, a range for-loop would be nice to have.  For that matter, ranges and slices across the standard indexed collection type (whatever it may be) would also be nice to have.
- A piping and/or function composition operator would also be nice to have.
- Support, in some (at least limited) fashion for concurrency/parallelism.
- I'm sure some people would love a metaprogramming/macros facility, but I think there are many other things ahead of that.
