# Chapter Four Challenges

## 4.1

Based on a quick interwebs search, it seems like a regular grammar is, frankly, best summed up by [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_grammar) (accessed on 28 November 2022):

> In theoretical computer science and formal language theory, a regular grammar is a grammar that is right-regular or left-regular. While their exact definition varies from textbook to textbook, they all require that
>
> - all production rules have at most one non-terminal symbol;
> - that symbol is either always at the end or always at the start of the rule's right-hand side.

I  *think* that the advantages of this are that you can recursively expand the non-terminal symbol's definition without ever hitting a point where parsing anything becomes non-deterministic or 'unclear'.

Based on that, I would conclude that at least one reason why Python's and Haskell's grammars are not regular is because they permit the use an unbounded of non-terminal symbols/tokens/definitions, and those can appear anywhere in a given production (which loosely correlates to a statement in Lox, I believe).

[Results](https://www.reddit.com/r/compsci/comments/kkzn3r/the_lexical_grammars_of_python_and_haskell_are/) [from](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59092560/what-is-haskells-grammar-and-which-type-of-parser-can-parse-it) doing a search for "how is Haskell's grammar not regular" further suggest that the fact that whitespace/indentation is significant means that the grammars are not regular.  Basically, the fact that the number of indentation characters involved must be counted and compared to determine scoping stops them being regular.  I'm not totally clear on why that is, though.

## 4.2

To be completed.  I'm not even sure where to begin on trying to figure this out (it doesn't help that I have zero experience with Ruby or CoffeeScript).

## 4.3

The main reason I can think of not to discard whitespace is if you prefer to implement scoping via whitespace, ala F# & Python.  You would need to keep *some* concept of the whitespace at the start of a line, at least, to determine the relevant scope of that line.

The best reason I can think of not to discard either whitespace or comments is so that you could reconstitute the source code file(s) lines exactly as they were before the program was compiled.  This would be useful for debugging purposes, where people might want to see how the execution of their program works on the source code, like pretty much every modern visual debugger.

If you want to store a representation of the input source code files in some form apart from their typical text source, you would also need to keep it all.  I'm thinking of things like [Unison](https://www.unison-lang.org/) here, which apparently doesn't do typical textual code file editing.  I'm not actually sure precisely how it works, but I think you must essentially edit some conception of the AST, which would kinda mean that you need to store some representation of everything so that you can reconstruct the source for display to the editor.

## 4.4

Programming challenge.  The block comment syntax will be added to the jlox interpreter.
