# Chapter Five Challenges

## 1

```bnf

expr -> expr pars
expr -> IDENTIFIER
expr -> NUMBER

pars -> "(" ")"
pars -> "(" args ")"
pars -> "(" ")" pars
pars -> "(" args ")" pars
pars -> "." IDENTIFIER
pars -> "." IDENTIFIER pars

args -> expr
args -> args "," expr

```

I'm an uncertain that the above is correct.

### Bonus

The first production in the original looks to me like it encodes either calling a method or accessing a member on an object.  The latter two appear to be... I'm not actually sure.  I mean, they're identifiers and numbers, but I am uncertain about _precisely_ what that implies.

No, wait, duh, they're used to slot identifiers and numbers into the method call.  I don't think you're really supposed to use them on their own, which I was originally thinking 😖

## 2

If I'm understanding this challenge correctly, then the concept of extension methods as found in C# strikes me as yielding the requirement.  Which is basically the same semantically (so far as I can tell) as how Rust and Go implement methods.  As in, you can define your type as you please, then separately to that define functions which take an instance of the type and do some operation relying on data in the type.  The only issue I can think of is that if the type has private/hidden/etc members, the functions may not get access to those.  🤔

Or maybe it's the ML-y concept of modules?  (Honestly, after all this time, I'm still never sure exactly what people mean when they say module as opposed to namespace or package...)

I had a peek at Bob's answer, and it's way better than what I came up with.

## 3

This will be added to Jlox directly (or was already, depending on whether I have done it yet - I haven't at the time of writing).
