# Chapter Seven Challenges

## 7.1

### Would you extend Lox to support comparing other types?

Yes, but only between two of the same type.  Completely heterogenous comparisons make little sense to me (it almost certainly should be an error to do so, since it's almost certainly an error in the programmer's thinking), and it is entirely unclear how they should be compared.  There is no clear logical solution to it to my mind.  Unless perhaps a method is provided explicitly to compare a type against a different type - then it is up to the programmer themselves to define and specify the correct ordering.

### If so, which pairs of types do you allow and how do you define their ordering?

In general, only types which are the same concrete type.  I can certainly see an argument for enabling the specification of a comparison function in an interface though, meaning that different implementors of the same interface, even if they are of different underlying concrete types, could still be compared reasonably.

### Justify your choices and compare them to other languages

There are two main grounds for my choice:  1)  It is entirely unclear to me how one would define a meaningful and sensible global comparator; and, 2)  Comparing wholly different types is almost invariably a bug.  Better that programmers are informed of the type discontinuity, than have incredibly bizarre behaviour at runtime.

It is notable, however, that F# permits comparisons between different members of the same discriminated union (I believe it is written into the spec).  Those declared first in the DU's declaration are considered less-than to those specified later, while the same type uses the normal comparison system.  Used carefully, it enables well-specified comparisons between semi-homogeneous types.

## 7.2

Programming challenge.  Has been completed, from the looks of things (I don't remember doing it, but I might well have).

## 7.3

Currently, any attempt to divide by zero results in "Infinity".  I believe by the IEEE-754 spec, any attempt to divide a floating point number (of which all Doubles are) by zero becomes "NaN", which gets turned into Infinity...  somewhere.  I thought it was in Lox, but I can't find that anywhere now, so I assume that is Java's typical toString behaviour on any Double in a NaN state.

No, wait, it looks like Java reports division of any non-zero positive number as positive infinity, any non-zero negative number as negative infinity, and division of zero by zero as NaN.  I can't remember if that is the specified behaviour or not, but I would guess it is.

Personally, I think sticking to the IEEE-754 approach is the best idea.  There is no good solution to division by zero, reporting NaN makes as much sense as anything and is relatively well-understood.  You'd probably want to expose a bit more the Java functionality for working with Doubles, though.

Other languages mostly either seem to stick with using the IEEE-754 approach, at least for floating point numbers.  Typically for integers it seems like they go with throwing a DivideByZeroException or something.
